---
layout: post
title: OOP in JS
tags: [JavaScript, Prototype, theories, OOP]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

# Object Oriented Programming in JS

Class가 아닌 Prototype 기반의 JS 객체지향 프로그래밍의 이론과 방법 모음집.

<!--more-->

# What is OOP?

- Object-oriented programming(OOP)is a programming paradigm based on the concept of objects(= Style of the code, "how" we write and organize code)

- Use objects to model(describe) real-world(E.g. user or todo list item) or abstract features(E.g. HTML component or data structure)

- Object may contain data (properties) and code(methods). By using objects, we pack data and the corresponding behavior into one block

- Objects are building blocks of applications, and interact with one another

- Interactions happen through a public interface(aka. API): method that the code outside of the object can access and use to communicate with the object.

- OOP was developed with the goal of organizing code, to make it more flexible and easier to maintain(avoid "spagghetti code")

# How do we actually design classes?

좋은 class를 설계하기 위해선 4가지의 법칙이 있다.

## Abstraction

Ignoring or hiding details that don't matter, allowing us to get an overview perspective of the thing we're implementing, instead of messing with details that don't really matter to our implementation.

ex) 우리가 이벤트 리스너를 지정할때, eventListner를 사용하지만 그 안의 logic까지 신경쓰지 않는다.

## Encapsulation

Keeping properties and methods private inside the class, so they are not accessible from outside the class. Some methods can be exposed as a public interface(APIs)

- Abstaction(추상화)
- Encapsulation(캡슐화)
- Inheritance(상속)
- Polymorphism(변형)

